_Overiew of Eclipse plugin CLACS download and installation_

Summary :

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Downloads =

 * plugins sources codes (SVN repository)

 * Two .jar containing the dependencies (See URL link below)

 * Squeak and SoftConstraint plugin

= Installation =

_To test and to complete_

==Eclipse and plugins Installation ==

===With Galileo Eclipse Modeling Tools===

Install Eclipse 3.5 Galileo version Eclipse Modeling Tools can avoid most plugins installation (exceptionally Orbit and Squeak) and dependency problems. 

*_Nb : We strongly recommend to install Eclipse 3.5 Galileo version Eclipse Modeling Tools. The installation of Eclipse with this version on a computer which has another version of Eclipse will not affect on the  version already installed. Just install the new version in a different directory. Both versions can also use differents workspaces but eventually can share the same one._*

 * [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/technology/epp/downloads/release/galileo/R/eclipse-modeling-galileo-incubation-linux-gtk.tar.gz  Galileo Eclipse Modeling Tools Version Linux] 

 * [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/technology/epp/downloads/release/galileo/R/eclipse-modeling-galileo-incubation-win32.zip Galileo Eclipse Modeling Tools Version Windows] 

 * [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/technology/epp/downloads/release/galileo/R/eclipse-modeling-galileo-incubation-macosx-carbon.tar.gz Galileo Eclipse Modeling Tools Version Mac Carbon] 

===Without Galileo Eclipse Modeling Tools===

 * Download and extract the dependencies [http://clacs.googlecode.com/files/D%C3%A9pendances1.tar.gz  Part 1] [http://clacs.googlecode.com/files/D%C3%A9pendances2.tar.gz  Part 2]

 * Install in Eclipse the plugins presented below in the following order:
(copy the .jar in plugin folder of Eclipse)
 
 # EMF 
 # Query 
 # Transaction 
 # Validation 
 # OCL 
 # UML 2.0 
 # GEF 
 # Orbit(map) 

==Squeak and SoftConstraint Installation ==

===Squeak===

 * Download and extract Squeak archive
[http://clacs.googlecode.com/files/Squeak.zip Archive Squeak]

 * For windows, put Squeak folder in the same folder as Eclipse launcher. 
 * For Linux and Mac, Versions to install are presented in the Squeak folder. 

=== SoftConstraint : Constraints plugin===

 * Download SoftConstraint plugin [http://clacs.googlecode.com/files/SoftConstraint.jar Plugin SoftConstraint]

 * Copy SoftConstraint.jar in project repertory (Bu default with Galileo : same level as eclipse launcher).

==Project Installation==

===Recovery of the SVN repository password===

 * Authenticate with the credentials of your account on http://code.google.com/p/clacs/.

 * Go to Sources tab and click on "googlecode.com password"  and save the generated password.

===Subclipse Tigris Installation===

 * Add the following url in the eclipse update tool (help, install new software) : `http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.6.x`

 * Select  subclipse and its dependencies and lanch the installation

===Récupération du projet sur le dépôt SVN===

 * Il est désormais possible de créer un nouveau Checkout SVN. (New-> SVN ->Checkout Projets from SVN)

 * Cochez "Create a new repository location", et entrez l'url : `https://clacs.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/`

 * S'identifier avec pour login, l'adresse mail qui vous a permit de vous identifier sur `http://code.google.com/p/clacs/` et pour mot de passe celui précédement réccupéré.

 * Une fenêtre récapitule l'ensemble des dossiers du projet, selectionnez tous les dossiers et terminez.

 * L'ensemble des répertoires du projet est ajouté au Workspace.

===Résolution des dépendances manquantes===

Ajoutez les dépendances suivantes (sur le projet concerné : click droit -> Properties ->Java build path -> Libraries) 

_nb : Si des librairies sont déjà présentes et introuvables, les supprimer._

====Projet CLACS====

 * org.eclipse.emf.ocl_1.1.1.v200709121956 (répertoire mdt-ocl-SDK-1.1.2/eclipse/plugins des dépendances)

====Projet CLACStoSCL_Plugin====

 * org.eclipse.emf.ecore_2.3.2.v200802051830(répertoire emf-sdo-xsd-SDK-2.3.2/eclipse/plugins des dépendances)

====Projet CLACS_OCLConst====

 * org.eclipse.emf.common_2.3.2.v200802051830(répertoire emf-sdo-xsd-SDK-2.3.2/eclipse/plugins des dépendances)

 * org.eclipse.emf.ecore_2.3.2.v200802051830(répertoire emf-sdo-xsd-SDK-2.3.2/eclipse/plugins des dépendances)

 * org.eclipse.emf.ocl_1.1.1.v200709121956(répertoire mdt-ocl-SDK-1.1.2/eclipse/plugins des dépendances)

 * org.eclipse.emf.ecore.xmi_2.5.0.v200906151043(répertoire plugins d'eclipse)

 * org.eclipse.core.commands_3.5.0.I20090525-2000(répertoire plugins d'eclipse)

 * org.eclipse.core.resources_3.5.0.v20090512(répertoire plugins d'eclipse)

 * org.eclipse.equinox.registry_3.4.100.v20090520-1800(répertoire plugins d'eclipse)

 * org.eclipse.gmf.runtime.diagram.ui_1.2.0.v20090526-1925(répertoire plugins d'eclipse)

 * org.eclipse.gmf.runtime.diagram.ui.resources.editor_1.2.0.v20090526-1925(répertoire plugins d'eclipse)

 * org.eclipse.gmf.runtime.notation_1.2.0.v20090521-1925(répertoire plugins d'eclipse)

 * org.eclipse.ui.view.properties.tabbed_3.5.0.I20090429-1800(répertoire plugins d'eclipse)

 * org.eclipse.ui.workbench_3.5.0.I20090603-2000(répertoire plugins d'eclipse)

===Lancement du projet===

Le projet ne devrait plus avoir d'erreurs (si c'est le cas, ajouter les dépendances manquantes de la même manière, elles seront signalées par l'onglet "problems" d'Eclipse.

Pour le compiler, il suffit de lancer CLACS en tant qu'"Eclipse Application"(click droit sur le projet CLACS, Run as -> Eclipse Application, ou le raccourci Shift + Alt + X enfoncés, puis E). La version d'Eclipse ainsi lancée disposera du plugin CLACS 1.1. 

L'utilisation du plugin CLACS est expliqué dans la partie [http://code.google.com/p/clacs/wiki/Utilisation_fonctionnalites Utilisation et Fonctionnalités]